# Never forget your PIN or combination lock!

My great-grandfather, Donald McLeod Vince Gayton Sr, used a simple cipher to encode the combinations for the locks on his luggage. He picked a 10-letter phrase (Point Guard) and used the position of each letter in the phrase to represent the numbers.  

So 1 = P, 2 = O, 3 = I ... 9 = R, 0 = D.  The combination 19, 23, 30 becomes PR OI ID (well, Don actually was only using 3-digit combinations on suitcase locks, but a 3 x 2-digit combination lock makes a better example).

Memorize one simple 2-word phrase, and you can write down the combination for a lock right on the lock itself, and no one who does not know the keyphrase can read it!  Or write the PIN code for your bank card right on the signature strip, and if it is stolen the thief will be no more able to use it than if you had it only in memory.

Keep in mind that this isn't particularly secure crypto. There are all kinds of ways in which the encrypted code is much easier to guess than the numbers themselves.  For example, if you have a 4-digit PIN with one repeated number, sat 3141, the cipher using POINT GUARD gives you IPNP.  The repeated P tells an attacker that there is one repeated number, and the set of possible codes drops by 10X, from about 10,000 to about 1,000.  More subtly, there are letters in English that are more commonly found at the beginning or end of words, making some substitutions more likely than others. I know only enough about cryptographic math to be certain that this is not a strong system, and someone who really knows about encryption would tear it apart.  

However, this system isn't intended to defeat a computer attack, or to retain the full strength of the original PIN.  It's intended to secure the padlock on your locker room at the gym (where someone trying hundreds of combinations would attract substantial attention) or a PIN code on a bank card (where the card is blocked after three incorrect guesses). Weakening the protection of either of these doesn't have much impact, because in both cases a reduced number of combinations to try is still way more than anyone is likely to have (if someone is extraordinarily motivated to get into your gym locker they'll bring a bolt cutter, and if someone has a way to try hundreds of PIN codes on your bank card they also have a way to try thousands, so you're screwed anyway).  

Ok, so how do you choose a keyphrase? If you use POINT GUARD then anyone else who reads this Github will be able to steal your socks and empty your bank account.  Similarly, you shoudln't use an electronic method to generate or select your keyphrase, because if you've got a virus or trojan on your computer somebody may be able to guess it.

So I've made a very stupid little Python script that takes any list of words (as a text file, one word per line) and spits out all 2-word combinations of 5-letter words from the list that do not contain duplicate letters.  Turns out the General Service List of English words for foreign language speakers https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Service_List of only 2,000 words (I actually used this one http://jbauman.com/aboutgsl.html) generates over 15,000 keyphrases from ABOUT CHIEF to YOUTH WRECK.  The Scrabble dictionary (SOWPODS) generates a preposterously huge list of keyphrases (over 9 million), far more than I think should be necessary (some of them are pretty good, like TUSHY MOLAR and HAZEL YURTS, others such as BLAYS OHING are not much easier to remember than a random series of digits). The keyphrases from the SOWPODS list are not here because they're too numerous to upload (the resulting file is 111MB of text), so if you really want them run the script on your local machine.

Anyway, take one of the lists here, or get your own text dictionary and run the Python script on it, and you'll have a list of keyphrases.  Pick one using a non-computerized method (use dice or cards; some ideas here https://www.quora.com/What-are-some-good-ways-to-generate-random-numbers-without-using-a-computer) and remember it.

Practice converting from numbers to letters and back using your keyphrase for a few minutes, then try it on your gym lock and/or bank card!

If your socks or stolen, or your bank account emptied, I'm afraid my great-grandfather has long since passed away so he won't be able to reimburse you.  In other words, use at your own risk. 